framework and library, no time in project to think in these lines..

spring, angular, react 
framework.. it will have an opinion on architecture
and then you ready made functions and classes.

library = ready made functions and classes with
no strong opinion on architecture..

best thing we can do, learn the official version what they
call it and stick to thier calling.

jquery library 
angular framework.

reactas a library.



where are we..

1.can we setup events and access parts of html and change
parts of html using 
1.javascript without jquery
2. javascript with jquery.

2. yesterday we started seeing something called promise.
it is not happening now it will happen one day..
creation of promise.
create a promise called x
using of promise
x.then(successfunction,failurefunction)
person who created the promise
using the promise
are different people.

3. what is a web service.
3.1 we have some logic written  in a technology called X ( we have writen
service using technology X. i have written addding of two numbers using java )
service..

3.2 we want the service function to be called from other technologies like Y, or Z.
how to call it,we have wrap our service layer in http . call functions via http
our logic functions how have we called so far.. answer is very simple
by using functionname.
 so far although we have used so "much ?" of so called web technology
still we are zero in web technology why so far we have never used http
in any of our examples.


once you make it as web service what is advantage we get..
any presentation can call it
service is written in java.
presentation can be written inpython
presentation can be written in .net
in our prsentation will be writtein in javascript..(react)
example


what is json..? people will chew the brain.

expansion is JavaScript object notation.
what is it?
a string standard to represent variables.
commonly used during web services.
presentation and service pass variables in json format.

nodejs
1. server side javscript runtime.
2. we want to build service layer and dao layer using nodejs.
i want to something insert some row into the table by using nodejs.


I want insert some row into the table by using jquery no no..


1.to run java programs we need jvm do you agree.?
2. to run nodejs programs we need the nodejs runtime.

we are in the world of "mass scale copy paste"
java guys will copy from python, python from java. .net guys from copy both..
after copying these guys wants to show originality how to show origanlity
simple change the name of it..

spring framework

In every programming we will have way to modularize our code..

1. C header files.
2. java --packages.
3. javascript --same story think how to module system..
to understnd module system or package or header files it is understood
we should write more than 1 file do you agree.


we have to learn node js how.
first tinybit in nodejs
1. simple javscript programs run it.
2. module system. in nodejs
3. how event handling works in nodejs.

write a simple js function which returns upper case of a given string
put in a separate .js file and try to use in another .js by using require syntax.

just like in java we have many packages.
nodejs comes with lot of inbuilt modules . modules for http. modules for io
, modules of ...

by default nodejs is event driven. that means you know our fate..
our fate.. same fate like last 8 days..
we were listening for the event.
now in nodejs what we will do samething listen for the event.
but earlier we were busy with click, blur, $, domcontentloaded.. 
now we are busy with events like hey if ou have a http server.. then do this for me.
if you are trying to insert command , then do this for me..

ok we want to build a simple http server. how to build it anwer is simple
we need to use nodejs http module how will it look like..


after you create an object what do you do?
call non static functions.
where everywhere.. in java ..net., in python . in javascript.

once we are in jquery, react or node js world whenever
we see a fucntion being called ensure you read documentation

what is reading documentation
1. knowing what the function does.
2. what is its input argument
3. what is return type
4. how do we know function suceeded or failed.
reading documentation 100% never means knowing what is written inside
the function no that is what we are interested in..

what should a server do.
1. get parametrs from the request.
2. do some logic
3. return some output via response
this is what is expected from http request and http response.

in nodejs syntaxes.
1. after the hello world.
2.one small example for module system.
3. one small example for http.
how do you read the parameter from the http request.. answer is depends
on the framework you are using...

1. java world you will get syntax.
2. php world you will get syntax
3. nodejs world you will get one syntax.
syntaxes will vary .. dont byheart find out and use it.

figure how to read a parameter from the request and send it as a response.
syntax we are using is useless there are better mechanisms avaialble
currently let us stick with only get mode of request..



to build a nodejs program where input is a  number and return will
be a 5th multiple of that number.



https://localhost:99?adults=1&childs=0&infants=0,
we should know how to read the parameters..


https://localhost:99?adults=1&childs=0&infants=0, ==URL
import the url module
and parse the url we got from the user how..

let x= url.parse(req.url);
x.adults 
x.child
x.infant

how do you create an object of the class Student in java.


Student student =new Student(); //all real llife code will look like what is proof
//open open source projects and see the style of coding.



Student obj1=new Student();//kid not suitable for  project









visual code.. tool --here we dont need to explore unencessary lot of plugins
what we do is once we join the company ask the project team what plugins
are you using and use it first.. first imitate, later on if we find interesting plugins
we can suggest the project team hey we can use this plugin..

tools is company specific..it is important.. but we cannot equate to the cost
of knowing architecture..
broom, vacuum cleaner..

project success = process * technology * tools * ...
we cannot be 5/5 in everything 
aim for 2/5 in process
aim for 3.5/5 in technology
aim for 2/5 in tools.
NO I will be 5/5in all the things, ok give a chocolate and run away from the person..


worksapce folder as  workspace












what is json

moral of the story is.

1. if you set up http server in any technology, ensure you learn the syntax
of reading the paramter first and do some stupid loginc on the paramter
and return it as a response...

we will join back at 16.00.


hope is you have done your some practicals on jquery and javacript
we want do some practicals

what happens in web technology of nodejs.
http functionality.. inbuilt module of nodejs called http.
there is a small library called express-js which again is used for building
web applications on top of nodejs..
dont byheart the syntax but do the programs mechanically..


let us say we want to read three paramters
from http request..
1. empno
2. empname.
3. deptid.
from the http request
response. I want to show back these parameters.

so far ..we use http module of nodejs which is inbuilt.
we want to use some third party web framework on nodejs
one such framework is express.

what is npm.
when we installed nodejs we had some libraries in our system.
now we want to download some new libraries which are not part of nodejs
default installation..
how to install it.. NPM (expansion is Node Package Manager)
what is this.. this is a mechanism thru which

people who create libaries for nodejs can put in some central place
in the internet, which is availalbe to everyone.

npm will give you commands thru whcih we can download these libraries
to our system.

what does npm do , it tries to keep a file called package.json 
what does it do, it carries the basic information about the project 
and also it stores which libraries and which version of the libraries
we are using in the project.

later on we will see what is advantage of package.json
using npm some X can publish the library
and using npm some Y can use the library published by X.

nodejs and npm are managed by different companies..
I am installing express module in nodejs why. we want to build some
small web applications by using express.

earlier also we built yes.. by using inbuilt http module of nodejs
now we are going to build by using express, we will meet many advantages
becuase of using express. what is it we will see hold on.

I want to work my sql in nodejs. ok install mysql library.

const http = require('http');
const url = require("url");
http.createServer().listen(8080);



is proof that we are not using express we are using nodejs inbuilt http module.

in express the same thing, syntax will change becuase module name will change.
const express = require('express');
const app = express();
app.listen(80, ()=>{});

1. dont byheart any of the syntaxes..
what was shown to you is to tell syntax will vary...

in any http module what to observe.

1. how the server is setup
2. how the request is processed
3. in express, we can differentiate requests by using something called URI.
for example we can tell
if the URI is login, then X function is called.
if the URI is register, then Y function is called
== registration for the events of http.


self test..

1. use inbuilt http module of nodejs.
2. do you know how to read some parameters that
comes as part of the URL.
http://localhost:71?length=3&breadth=4
read length and breadth... a04web.js.

----------------------------------
express.
1. install express.
using npm.
2. set up a simple web server on port 800.
if request is ijk. ensure a function prints Ijk in the browser.
if request is pqr, ensrue a function prints pqr in the browser.
------------------------------------------------------------------
one simple advantage of using express is.

when we have static html files. we can tell express hey when some makes
the request for these html files dont process it, just give to the client
as it is.

for the first time you are seeing an html being used with http

http://localhost:900/one.html
---------------------------

1. can you set up the server, can you set two different uri
2. can you set up a static folder ( a folder which is not processed by the server)
---------------------------------

1. we have installed express module that is not part of nodejs.
npm install express --save.. ( dont byheart on need basis find out and use it)


http://localhost:900/login-- request is made..

// request processing function
app.get("/login",(req,resp)=>{

    resp.send("ok for login we need to do some logic")//this is response.
});


in your project when you do.
80% of service and dao in java ie spring boot
20% keep it nodejs ie javascript.
so that you can tell look I know how to build service and DAO in both javaas well
as javascript

presentation goes. 100% javascript
90% javascript
10% java (jsp, servlet)


simplest thing in nodejs 
1. setting http via nodejs inbuilt module
just a request, read some parameter and show the response

2. setting http via express module in nodejs
tell different uri, will be processed by different functions.
usage of the static folder.


http://localhost:900/sf/one.html, it is mistaking for  URI
and tells if you give this as a request, I dont have any function
which can process it.

now we have to tell express hey express , this is not what you should process.
rather this is simple html file, you just give it as it is to the browser..which is client.
this english how to do.. app.use(express.static("foldername"));


finally itemscenario has becomea  web application.

file:///D:/$$dacmumbai/15.06.2022/a02itemscenario.html, this is not a web
application.

























