
https://forms.gle/Xt39URavJ1LLECvB8
enter your doubts here we will address on it saturday..

feedback.. 70% in the batch who feel they are not able to understand anything.
so what do i Plan do about it.. give some context and revise all things which
covered from day till now
1. http concepts
2. html concepts
3. javascript concepts
4. what is course of action.


in this module unlike your earlier modules. you have new syntaxes waiting.
syntax html
syntax javascript
syntax css
all the 3 syntaxes are different..




first let us complete html tags.
let us complete css section
let us complete javascript section
this appraoch will not work in any project..




in web technology module , advanced java module
it is not the syntax that matters, it is concept it is the architecture that matters.


usual problems in this module.
people will not get comfortable with react..


what is our focus.
1. to learn to use these (html +javscript ) together by learning some basic
html syntax and some basic javascript syntax)
2. build some examples, take that same example try it with framework.
3. revisit the html so called new tags or javascript new functions. or css new syntaxes







project based appraoch is not a good idea when we are learning concepts
all projects need some logic, logic is not important if we are trying to tell
we learn concepts.

1. independently learn concepts..
2. think of the project.


1. concept
2. can you give an example without code
3. write code ( to prove we know hello world syntax)
4. find out best practices
5. logic building  (project will kidnap us to 5, which is not a good idea if we are
starting)



h1 tag will start a new line
span tag will not introduce a new line.



syntax in javascript

1. how to create a variable
2. how to create a function.
3. setup event.
what is an event?
1. change in varaible value and also intimation should happen to others
saying that variable has changed

example int i =3; i =4; is it it an event yes, if we are telling other people
that hey look i value changed..

2. event source

3. event listneer.
write a function and then tell the event source i am interested in the event.
== Event Registration.


what is priority in web page.. 
1. you know your service function
we 2,3,4 during event handling.

2. capture the input
3. call the service function
4. update the ui.

if you write a variable
a function and then do event handling it is enough...

you dont need to learn more syntax.. 








a simple scneario what is it..


Decision making improves only if we have time perspective..

biggest challenge in the project, do we know what will change in the project
what will not change in the project.





suppose there is a table emp(empno, empname, deptid)

insert into emp(empno,empname,deptid) values (1,'a',3); //good insert bad ..
why is it bad.. tomorrow project will tell emp should have email also
if you add a email column to the emp table. your yesterday code will stop working
today..

we will take a break till 16.00 and join back..



what are we going to do next..
1. little bit of css how to use css along with javascript
2. jquery..














