yesterday summary
1. concept is important, syntax will come..
example.

web .. we should think in terms of http.
we should have clarity where the request starts and how the response comes.
server side component and client side component.
presentation layer .. --no 1 thing do you know which service function we plan to call.
what does presenttion layer.. do concept..

1. takes whatever is needed as input for the service layer.
2. calls the service layer depending on mood ( events
3. update the ui based on whatservice layer is telling.
web based presenation
1. html is a light topic.. we can learn it properly not a big deal
2. css is a ocean
3. javascript is another ocean
2 and 3 being good at is not possible so be ok with 2 and decent with 3.

whatever technology we use , do we have the habit of going

from architecture to code and not vice versa..

html is a presentation layer technology in web applications.

we can use web applications but not for presentation ( web services)
web service are we using http answer is yes, but will i see html or css answer is no.
that means still web but not for presentation.




basics.
1.when you define a function, think first who is going to call it
1.1 system
1.2 fellow programmers.
2 calling a function 
ok do we have the decency of looking at documentation.
looking at doucmentation does not mean doing phd, simple things.

what does input indicate.
what does it return
how do i know function failed or function suceeded.

as of now what is our job...
1. learn to use html and javascript togethr with a little bit of css.

how to use html, javascript, css together.. we have to do it in multiple iterations.

html.
1.decides the structure of the web page.
we want a hyperlink we need to use html and we cannot do it by using css
or javascript.

any technical statement should be followed with by saying "for example" 

syntax.
html consists of tags which the browser knows what to do... our job
is to use those tags..

example body, tag head. form, input...these tags we are not showing
creativity we are using the tags which browser already knows.

we can run behind syntax but do we know concepts..biggest challenge in
web based presentation, browser has got moods..x feature works in chrome
does not work in ie.. or works in firefox does not work in safari.. these kind
of problems we should think from day 1.. duplicate submision..
for doing anything in html, it is learning a new tag..

I see a tag called X, what does it, try doing a small program that 's all

when we want to learn any technology be willing to open other people code..

our code is only 3: other people code is 7 that is way we learn technology

NO i will write my own code. ok.. learning will very poor.. why.. we are learning
how can we be benchmarks in learning anything..

open other code to judge whether we know technology, oh I am not able to understand
ok, no big deal it is fine.. programmer who tells every program mine should work
will be a bad programmer becuase in real life all programs need not work. we have
to think what ot change...
we can open other person code, provided we "lower the cost of failure"
projects dont suceed or dont fail becuae of a programmer. becuase it is a system..


programmers who dont open other person code are already they are useless in a project.

I am learning html (ok ghost speaking) 
ghost has to learn lot of new tags..
how to crate a slider in html... ok find out how to crate a slider in html


basic rule in science
hell or heaven does not matter prove its repetability..

ok we have html fine. but with that alone nothing works we have to think of using
css and javascript also to be real...

web presentations we have to be  4/5 in html and 3/5 in javascript atleast 1 or 1.5/5 in
css..

in html what is important , apart from the tags, do we know which part of the
page will change, or we will read from.. that is important such parts of the page
should be marked with an attribute called "Id" this is concept , syntax will come later on.

today important point, do we know where to give id in html page. this is not
a technical skill it depends on what is problem you are trying to solve.

what is common thing between stupid programmer and intelligent programmer
common thing is bother thier programs work..


stupid programmer tells thank god /devil it works..
intelligence programmer 90% can justify why he wrote the code and why it works..

javascript

1. basic decancy is to recognize it is a new langauge which we dont know...
what do we do in javascript most of times..

1. answer is access sections of the html page during events.
2. do some logic in the funtion itself or contact the server..and server do the logic..
3. based on what logic told update sections of the html page..

important word is event..

event -- some varible changes in place X and in place Y you to have inform
that hey Y in X changes have happened ( "event is occuring")

we have two places A and B
in A there is a variable called i. 
when this variable i changes in place A, B has to informed why B has registered
with A saying let me know when i changes.


in event handling we should 5/5 to be in real life project
no I am 4.9/5 ok we are useless in the project.
5/5 is a must.. 


explain javascript in two words.  ==Event handling..


Event source. usually we are not this.

1. something changes  some variable.
2. some condition is put on event listener.
3 once event listener agrees , then registration for event can take place.
4. when event occurs, all people registered will be intimated for the event.

Event LIstener do. (most of tiems we are here)
1. agree to gun shown by event source how.
he will define a function which event source expects.. no creativity
in input or output.. ie input and output is controlled by event source..
2. register for the event by calling some function of the Event Source.


registering for the event != event occuring






most of times we will writing functions in javascript.

when we write functions in javascript
we should be 100% conscious whthr the function we wrote is


1. event handling function
2. is our logic function
how do we know whether it is event driven or logic  answer is
it is our function we will be calling it
it is event handling function, our job will only to define the function 
and calling will be done by the system..

public void run()
{

}

run(); //this is calling you will never see this in your threading code..






what do you know about javascript

1. when i write a function, i will always think is this a event handling function
or this is a logic function..

event handling 99% we are event listeners. we do two things.

1. agree with the gun -- write a function that javscript expects from us..
2. register for the event.
3. inside the function which we wrote in 1, write what logic we want to do
when the event occurs.
crazy syntax in javascript that looks like calling but it is not calling
it is actually assigning..

<input type="button" id="b1" value="show Hello"
onClick="whocares()"/>  -- registering for the event

how to read this line...
when onClick event occur then teh function whocares should be called
by the system.

just becuase we wrote like this in "whocares()" does not mean we are calling
the function now..


<input type="button" id="b1" value="show Hello"
onClick="whocares()"/>
we are creating a button with id b1 and we are registering for the event onCllick
onClick happens or is detected by system, then system will call the function
whocares.


registering for the event !=  time will pass + event occuring  == event handling will get called.


we register for events in javascript.
what is most important is "there are so many opinions on how to register"
we should not care for any of the opinion and just relax.. why, it is an opinion..

some english cousin will come and tell this is not good.. we should
use modern javascript.. what do you mean "modern" he will show new syntax..
hey relax for sometime.. why..

you can learn "modern" but then react has a got new meaning for modern
angular has got a new meaning for modern, jquery has got now meaning for modern..
hey boss relax.. let me see how i am using javascript..

100% in projects we will use javascript with frameworks only.
only raw javascript nobody uses it..
in real life first use telescope and then we can use micrscope
no I will use microscope from day 1 ok, be super busy with zero relavance..

when you call the function make it a point to read the doucmentation
first.. kids will scream if we do this we will useless in a project
we have so many functions how to do this.. relax shakespeare for sometime...
in project you wont have so many functions it will some 10 to 16 functions
which are repeatedly used...


when we see new functions and our bp raises, that is  sign we are in trouble.
projects will have many new functions why should bp raise, if the function is not
known write a small program and check what that function does.. and not bp raises..

easy to trust wrong astrologers than read official documentation..


a programmer who is trying out a new syntax should be ok if progrm does
not work.. why. first foremost this is not any project code..

thought process. people who cannot lower the cost of failure will always
be a bad programer.. programmer should be ok if program fails...programmer 
should never agree when any manager tells becuase of you project suceeded
or becuase of you project failed..


we have to register for the event and not get "Carried" away by the syntax
becuase syntax will change depending on the framework we use..


whatever framework we use it does not matter.

if we are event listener.
1. our job is only to define a function and not call it.
2. register for the event.


learn a simple theory that anything written globallly let it be function
let it it be a variable is a sign that person is stupid in javascript.

global function.. function which is presnt in the script outside all functions.
globla variable --variable outside functions..


in javascript how to write a button when you click on the button
then a fucnton should get called, it should print some console.log ("ok button clicked");


developer tools is used only developers is a myth.. end customers can also use it
and screw up the web page..

rule no in javascript good mood or bad mood never write global functions
ie funtions which are outside functions and never use global variables
in case you use make it const.


moral of the story is like this.

1. different syntaxes for registering for the event..
onClick, addEventLIstener., .. (framework opinion) who cares ... what we should
do once we decide ok we are going to use react, then learn react way of registering
for the event, no I am using angular ok learn angular way of registering of event
concept will be same.. we define the function we dont call it, but syntax will
be different..

2.global functions, global variables, will create a misery avoid it.. how..


Click event.. ok 
onChange .. ok
all these names look simple..

hey browser after you processed all the tags in the html page let me know..



framework has an opinon on how to do things.
it will give some ready functions and ready made data types.


if you define the function, think who is calling it
if you are calling the function, open the documentation and read it.

people who tell Until i write more programs I wont understand .. are secretly
tellng they dont want to respect theory..
figure out how to learn maximum concepts by writing less code and not more code.
demonstrate all concepts in java till exception handling by writing less code..

event handling functions which are defined by the event listener are called
by whom, person or the system... system..  when ever system is going to call it
in javascript we can write the functions by using anonymous functions ie functions
without name.


window.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded'
when on the window object. I want to listen for the event DomContentLoaded 
when that event occurs, call the function i have passed as a second argument)

kids favourite events are onClick, onfocus,onChage... 

adutsl favourite events are DomContentLoaded. onLoad event on window..
why this interesting becua this tells whole page is loaded. once it is loaded
we now access any section of the html page..

no matter whatever happens dont write global functions or global variables.

syntax is a function of time, if we have used the syntax only once and think
we remember the syntax, too much of "hope"


worst thing for programmer is "hoping it works" , dont.. 
check output frequently...



hopefully all of you know how to setup event for a button in a non global way
by using DOMContentLoaded event on Window .

kids like tests.
adults know how to do self test on anything learnt.

in javascript key test is do we know how to setup events.
what are all the events, that you learn it on need basis and in the beginning
learn some simple events..

data types in javascript.
javascript has data types and it tells you dont need to tell me I will judge
when we do operation.

datatype =content  + operations

int  i ='3'; // 3 is content ok operations is hte boss
int j = i *4;
String y= "Hello"-"Hell"; minus operation is not defined on string..


let x =3;//this is javasript
let y = x-2;
console.log(y);
what will y print.. 1 that is proof javacript knew that x is a number.
	

so what is m oral of the story.
1. practice some html ok
2. keep your focus on javascript
3. read the tutorial i get bored ok take pain killers in form of programs word documents.





























