1. relax if you did not understand also.

what should be your focus

1. html you can create texbox, button and span tag and know why 
you will give id.

2. in javascript are you knowing why are we listening to the event
domcontentloaded. this event will gurantee us that all tags in
the browser has been interpreted by the browser.
window.addEventListener("domcontentloaded",()=> {} )

3. how to do you any html tag which has been identfied with the help 
of id.
let x = document.querySelector("#abc");

4. we should know what object is the id pointing to.
example is id given for h1 tag or is id given for some form tag..

5. how to setup events for button and textbox blur event.

7. yesterday mindmaps we must have seen what is concept you should know.


can we have this in talking

question
1. architecture point of view what does question indicate.
2. take an example.
3. in context of that example explain the architecture.
4. talk about syntax. (function of time)
5. be capable of coding that example if the interview guys tells hey look i will give
you a system code what you said now, ok i will code and code..

basic programmer mindset.
1. keep your bp level normal.. why becuase of me project wont suceed
becuase of me project wont fail.. why project is a system
2. if you believe in 1, you will lower the cost of failure, when programs dont work
bp wont rise we will just think whatto change.
3. when we have doubt in syntax or concept, we are willing to write a
small program to check the concept or syntax.

minimum criteria
1. can we give id for html and know why we are giving
2. setup events in javascript
3. do we know to model input and ouptut
4. do some stupid logic 
if we are not capable of doing 1 to 4, web technology ends here only for the people.


architecture 

what is input needed .. this english which we are using for last 3 to 4 days.
it means..

what is input needed for the service function
what is model needed for calling the servcie function.

models of think of couriers.

where are we going now.
1. little of css
2. how to use css in context of javascript
3. jquery.
4.nodejs.




we are starting with css, are we going to do phd no.. how much
we are covering in this phase 0.5/5

1. expand css.
1.1 Cascading style sheets.

2. what does it do
2.1 it does decoration for the html page, example we have a paragraph
that should appear in red color, think of using css.
we have a textbox we want to make invisible ok think of css.
we want to center some text ok think of css.

2.2 what things should we know in CSS.
most important thing is something called "context selector" what it.
typically the logic in css is , find something in html and apply this kind of decoration

example
find X in html and do Y as decoration.
X is context selector
Y is called css properties.

X find h1 in html
Y is make the color of h1 as red.
what is the idea now..

1. learn tiny bit of css and learn  to use along with html and javascript.

which is challenging part in CSS
learning how to position things..


what are the syntaxes we should know in CSS.

1. w can write css at many levels we will stick with writing css
at head level of the html page.



what did you learn in CSS first?

1. css under  style tag.
2. focus on getting the context selector right.
3. then properties this we can learn on need basis.





basic issue, if intent is to apply we cannot talk things in a complicated way..




write a simple html page
with h1 containing hello
with p containing hi
with h4 having and id called x.

ensure h1 appears in red color
ensure p appears in blue color
any element with the id x should appear in green color.

if have element or id.
example h1 or #pqr, decoration is applied by the browser automatically.


class in css.
1. it does not applied automatically by browser.
2. we can apply it when need comes.
how.
manually thru code.
or via javascript.

if you want flexibility in terms of applying and removing the decoration
then most preferred way is a class.

among all the context selectors which is our favourite answer shoul be class.

how do you write a class.
1. use . syntax  . classname  {  css properties  }


class is indicated by .
who applies programmer 
how..
manually  ie put class="someclassname" in the tag.
or he can do it dynamically via javascript.





in css what to understand.

1. cntext selector.
h1 -- tag name
#pqr  -- id pqr
.abc   - classname.

multiple classes can be applied on the same element this is not
true.


no need for phd on css or anything..
any person who starts with syntax, that means he is already sacrified architecture
hence useless in a project..


css syntax.
context selector


property just learn two properties.
color
text-decoration:underline, none.



cocnept is can we know how to apply html, javascript and css together.


we will do 2 to 3 program which use html and javascript and mix a little bit of css.
we will join back at 11.30AM


DOMContentLoaded--event  --new --how new, copy paste from other places
will not wait for images to load.
load --another event  -- old  -- load will wait for images also load
what is differenc

nver touch load, as o fnow, it is n ot needed stick with domcontentloaded 
for the event..

dom content loaded = we have 10 lines of html code and 30 images let us say
dom content loaded occurs once the 10 lines of html is interpreted, images are not
loaded it is ok for domcontent loaded
it is not ok for load, load means it will wait for images also to be fully loaded.

on all events , dont trust anybody astrology including mine, why
not open official documentaiton and read..

on standard events like click, blur , load, domcontentloaded, dont trust astrology
of anybody read official documntation..


let msg =document.querySelector("#msg");
give me the elemtn which is pointed by the id msg.
on any element you can use this property classList..
use the function called to add a class. 
use the function called remove to the remove the class.

singe point summary for last 8 days 
go from architecture to code and never vice versa..

what we covered is 0.5/5 in css.. but important thing
we  should demonstrate we can use html +javascript +css together.





Demonsrate a UI where input is a deptid and output given a list of Employees
Employee means empno, empname, and deptid.



during the logic what is input
during the logic what happend, what is output.
currently I am going to keep the kids favourite which is nothing boolean
adults favourite is object..





what is the idea behind this program

write 200 lines of code nearly.. with

1. did you setup event.
2. did you access the html input
3. did you know what is output
4. do some stupid logic
5. updte the ui.

I will take some scnearios like given item category and show all items.
give a deptid show all employees.


what should i do practically in the lab.
1. self test on css.. and mix javascript 
2. double check have you understood the 4 assingments what has been given.
3. transport case study if design is complete, start with the crude html pages..

can we do sorting 100% yes, provided we know sorting concepts..
to sort what is most improtant sorting concept?













