web technology...

1. have you seen the syllabus we plan to cover..
2. we have to things simple and jargon free for entire module.
if intent is to apply we cannot afford to complicate things..
shakespeare died and his ghost broke into million pieces
and all million pieces have gone into the IT industry..
3. people who respect science should use words carefully..






what are we covering actually.

1. presentaton part of web technology ( main focus)
2. little bit of service layer.. (the most important part
of the project)
example we are booking a hotel, actualy checking of available rooms
and finding out thier fares is all called service layer..
3. little bit of securing web applications..
security is always process and technology..

what is that you need to do..
1. get the concept.
2. give an example.
3. syntax to write the program..
4. best practices..
5. logic building...


students generally while learning go all the freaky places
in internet to learn.. but that is not a good idea, it is better
to read official tutorials first...

1. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML  
2. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide

later on.. if you want
1. later on.. https://www.w3schools.com/html/ -- ok but it is a school.
more focus on syntax and less on concept.
2. https://javascript.info/

make a list of all doubts you have in piece of paper..


we will have lot of topics. but in any learing or in any real life
scenario we cannot afford to put equal effort..
show me equal effort == 100% guaranteed failure..


your effort in this module should be to understand javscript
properly first.. that is a new language you should even assume
that we know we if condition for loop learn that also newly
respect javascript as a new language.

phase 1-- using html, css and javscript together 
phase 2 -- learning react.
phase 3- nodejs tiny adventures..
phase 4 -- all the freaky things.. security.. http headers..
those are important.. but not project specific..







web technology..
1. what do you mean by web..?

what we mean by web usage of http protocol.


https://www.onlinesbi.com/

web scenario if we use this word..
1. we should be 100 % clear where the request starts
and where the response ends.

redbus.in    -- I made a request.
what I saw on the screen is response..







in IT industry, experience should not be taken seriously
that means what somebody tells I have 40 years experience
in IT, then what we should say, so what????


what is theory.
1. web means http should be used..
2. in any web application 100% clarity on what is request, what is response..

in web applciations we can have two category of components.

1. client side components
2. server side components.

I am doing web programming ( Super Big ghost talking)
ghost == full of intent zero details..

what kind of web component are you programming
1. client side
2. server side

let us assume ghost slowly starts coming to earth...
client side, you should ask him hey what client side component, is it html or css
or javascript, ghost must pick one of these things..

in web applications , client side and server side both are present on the server only..
everything is present on server, ok great that means that is a good way to build
slow things..
web applictions by design are slow.. only thing we should write code and make
it even more slow.. people who tell I want "fast" application should not build
web applications..

why is it called client side
1. when a request is made for a clietn side component.
2. server job is to locate the resource and give to the client.
3. client will process the resource.
what is it called client side.. client is processing the resource.
most of times this client will be a browser.
the  commonclient for web based presnetation is browser..



why is it called server side..
1. when a client makes a request for server side component.
2. web server will not understand the server side component.
3. it will look for additional software which can process the server side component.
4. additional software processes the server side component and then generates
some output let us call it as X.
5 that X is what goes to the client.
in server side component, this is processing on server side and what client sees
is the output of processing, hence you call it as server side.. 

example we want a web applciation component which can talk with the 
database we have. answer is you will see client side conponents cannot do it
we need a server side component only..

in any project.

1. presentaton

2. service --This is the boss... always..logic will tell what should
be in the Input and what shuold be output ( good programmers are 5/5 in this layer)
bad programmers will be 1/5 in this layer and they will spoil 1 and 3 also.

3. DAO layer (this place where databse logic usually comes)


when we talk about presentation..
a person who is not clear about which 
1. which service function we plan to call by the help of presentation
2. what is input for the service function
3. what is return type for the service function
cannot do anything in presentation.





we assume that we know service fucntion before we start
presentation..


in web based application when we build presentation we should
think of some common problems... 

kids are afraid of attending interviews
aduls are afraid of conducting interviews.


1. which browser and its version we are targetting.
we are going to target chrome browswer horrible why.. whichv ersion of chrome
think about that also...kids favourite statement == "latest browser" -- shakespeare ghost alive insdie the kid...
2. duplicate submission and back button what to do...we should plan..

problems 1 and 2 in web applications are there ever since dinosaurs were
coding web applciations... so today it is there. so need to act as though it is  new
problem only thing is we should recognize how to handle this in the beginning itself.


web applications are slow...

for any web based presentation person.
1. clarity on which service fnction they plan to call so that
they know what is input and what is the output..
2. know which browsers we are targetting, what happens
to duplicte submission, what happens reload of the page, what happens to back button
all part of "initial planning itself" becuase these problem will come 100% in
web based presnetation.

web based presentation learning the technology..
1. html
2. css
3. javascript.

most people think that they should learn html first separately, then learn css separtely
javascript separately.. this is horrible. learn to learn all the 3 together... this is 
standard "college kid problem" .. becuase 3std kid is ok in the school if he has learn
english 1 lesson, science 1 lesson, language 1 lesson...

what we will do is..

1. learn html little bit
2. learn css little bit
3. learn javascript little bit.
and then apply it together
and then go for one more iteration..

becuase in real life projects all the 3 should be used together only...


expand html  --> Hyper Text Markup Language.
ok great kid, what is html..

html is a web based presentation technology used to structure web pages.
example we want to have a form in the html page, we have to use html to make
a form. we want to create a grid in the html page, we need to use html to make a grid.
how does it work.. 
it has got a set of tags which are interpreted by the browser..
learning these tags is what we call learning html
is it difficult to learn html no, very easy.. 

what is CSS -- CAscadign style sheet 
what is it used for , decorating the web pages. or doing makeup for the web pages.
example we want some color for text.. we want some alignemnt , some textbox
should be visible or invisible...


what does javscript do. add dynamic behaviour
example if person enters the location as india. we dont want to ask him
which state he belongs to... 


how to build web based presentation
1. learn html properly
2. learn css little bit
3. learn javascript decently   

I will learn css 5/5 ok congrats forget javascript.. we will not even be 1/5 in javascript
why css is a pacific ocean and javscript is atlantic ocean..
show me equal effort = 100% failure..
all systems means unequal effort.. that is what works..


so what is moral of the story
html ( 4/5)
css (1.5/5)
javsacript (3/5)
if we become like this is more than enough.. 


for kids favourite
html 5/5
css 5/5
javsacript 5/5
ok eat chocolate and be happy



what happens in real life.. there will be something called UI
Team .. who will build UI and give us.
and our job is to make modifications to it and not destroy
thier work that is reason we are learning html, css, javascript...
no I am part ofUI team ok great,, but then forget about learning java...


something are high priority and somethings are low prioirity

in kids world low prioirity means zero priority
in adults world low prioirity means low prioirity
in stupid person world low prioirty means high priority..
we have to decide where we belong...


low priority never meant zero..
should we know css answer is 100% yes. should we do phd on css answer is no

file extension for a html page is going to .html
usually it not a good idea to keep spaces in file names.


my basic.html horrible
mybasic.html .. ok..

css files  -- css cousin sass
will have extension called .css

javascript.. approach it like a new technology we have zero skills on everything
in javascript so assume it is new learn eveything from beginning including
what is avariable.. respect this or else react will start reacting with us...


15.31 we will take a break till 16.00 and join back 16.00.

in projects initial josh does not matter at all
projects begin after all the josh is gone..








how to use html, how to use css and how to use javascript
1. in terms of editor, we will use visual code later, currently to get some
syntax practice we will use notepad++

people who dont install notepad++ are not developers..

html file will typically have an extension called .html or .htm
we will stick with .html

what we do next.. write tags. these tags are not our creative tags..
these tags are already known by the browser and we pick one..
typical structure of the html page is like this..



starting of the tag <x>

ending of the tag </x>

<Br/> -- empty tags.
tag is opened and tag is closed.


<hr/> are empty tags.


<h1> skldsflkjdfsjlkdsf  </h1>
content between starting tag and ending tag is called content of the tag..

how do you know h1 does, how do you know what br does.. that comes with practice..
those who byheart see you in HELL


concept is not a function of time
syntax is..

so what we are going to to do for next 2 to 3 days.. 
1. practice using html, css and javascript together and obviously not a web
application why. no http.
we can deal with lies but very difficult to deal with myths..

biggest myth. a person should know how to accept input
and display while learning a programming lanauage.

so kid feels so upset in C, if somebody did not teach him prinf and scanf
why becuase he is a kid...


so kid feels so upset in Java if somebody did not teach him sysout and Scanner
why becuase he is a kid...

both cases both are useless only then kid likes it ok teach him..

we will learn how to create ui components in html
let us learn how to create  a textbox in html. so called modern
ways.. hold on .. as of now dinosaur way also is ok.. but we 
are getting started to do use html, css and javascript together..


when we create ui components, it will take
some id and something called name why? concept.

id is used only for client side components
name is used if you want to read that information in some server side component.




<Br/> <input type="text" id="pincode" name="pincodefs"/>





https://www.cleartrip.com/flights/results?adults=1&childs=0&infants=0&class=Economy&depart_date=11/06/2022&from=BOM&to=DEL&intl=n&origin=BOM%20-%20Mumbai,%20IN&destination=DEL%20-%20New%20Delhi,%20IN&sd=1653907871810&rnd_one=O&sourceCountry=Mumbai&destinationCountry=New%20Delhi


currently we dont have any intention of writing a server side component
so for us id is enough we dont need to touch name except
where our fate is to write a name..example radio button...


learn some tags in html from where anywhere as long to stick it 

how to create a textbox
how to create a radio button
how to create a check box
and while writing it focus on did you id or did you give name. if name was it fate
or was it you 100% will acess it in a server side component.
with all user interaction comonents, you must know.. 


1. Label. this is what user will see ( place holder)
2. id or/and  name
3. value..(is important for non textbox components)

in textbox what we type in the textbox is the value
for radio button, checkbox, or drop downs label s and values can be different.

what is concept you should see while building ui.

1. what kind of a component we have created.. (textbox, date picker, ranger, slider...)
for each new tag is there.. should you byheart no, on need basis learn it..)

while learning any technology if peopledont read official web sites, they always
get wrong informtion about technology.. so learn to learn from official websites.


buttons you have categories.
1. normal buttons
2. submit button-- we should know what is form..

currently what did we learn.. just ui components like textbox or radio button
did we learn a form no. 

what is a form?
1. group things.



<form method="http terminology" action="">
what is method.. method is a way thru which http request is made..
method values are get, post ...get and post are not html, these are http standards
of making a request...

in method what we type is mode of request in http..
action="location"where request should be processed.


<Form method="what mode in http to send information"  action="name of
the componnt which will process the request">

we have to invoke the action , how.. 
one easy html way is by using a submit button.


I have a submit button but no form. ok congrats on improving your typing..
submit button invokes the action and make the request seeing the method used.


anybody who starts with syntax, be sure 100% he will be zero at concept.


what are concepts we should know
1. what is web .. http or its cousins https..
2.client side and server side.. why?
3. issues ,, browser moods, back button, duplciate submission. reload...
4. how to approach presention.
4.1 know your servcie function.. what does it take as input and what does it
return... else funeral begins early.. in the project..
4.2 html, css, javascript what it does (remember javsacript is a frog today)
javascript still heavy usage in presentation and reletively low usage in servcie)
4.3 html , basic structure.. how does it look lilke
head, body
where does javscript go
where does css go.
4.4 html syntax.
what is a form, 
what is action
what is method
what is id
what is name
what is value..































































