1. all you know how to setup event handling in jquery
2.hope you still remember.
2.0 dont know service function nothing to do in presentation.
2.1 html you give id.
2.2 setup events.
2.3 input and output.
2.4 stupid logic..
3. mystery part..
3.1 is nodejs http module working for you.
3.2 are you able to install express.
3.3 you are able to setup http server by using express.
3.4 are you able to make a folder as a static folder a folder where html files
or javascript fies will not be processed by nodejs.
3.5 URI ie you give X, some call back function should get called which prints
X is getting called.
3.5 URI ie you give Y, some call back function should get called which prints y.

what should you focus on next 3 days in programming.
how to write a html , use jquery and contact nodejs server runtime.
example we give accno, can we get name by contacting the server first phase.
example we give accno, can we get name by contacting the server , server will
contact the database and get the thing done.

in nodejs files, if you see any html tags being used , understand that is a bad architecture and not good for todays world.

what will keep inside the static folder in context of express
1. html files
2. css files
3. javscript files like jquery.. 
which should not be processed by nodejs but should be processed by the browser.



for everydoubt answer always should be searched first in architecture..



in any every web technology figure out where to
keep client side comonents
and where to keep server side components, how to ask this..

ok you are building a web application, I have a css file withme 
pelase show me where you keep it and tell why you kept it there..
taht folder static resources( server is not going to prcoess, only browser will process it)
if you have a server side component, what client sees is the output of server side
processing.. so view source you will not see anything actually written on the server


if you have a client side component, what client sees is complete thing writte
in the client side component, example .css, .html


currently dont do any expereimentation on mode of request.
keep it as get mode of request only..

app.get("some uri", whcih function to call)

how to read the paramter from the request.
now again dont get confused in syntax, syntax will be different ine xpress
syntax will be different if we are not using express.


create emp.html in the "static" folder of your nodejs express web application.
write a nodejs file, which will process the request.

mode of request is get.
uri is "empprocess"
read tthe parameter called empno
and print its value.

currently all our program is kids program. why string, int is there but no object
is there.. no objects ok congrats on continuing writing a kids program.


if you give empno as 23, return the object  { empno:23, empname:"A", mobileno:87}
in other cases
return { empno:0, empname:"na":mobileno:0}


how should you plan.

1. what is input you need.
2. what is output you will give.
3. what does output mean for the page.
4. foucs on nodejs code first.
5. in the static folder create a html
write the textboxes according to what nodejs expects
ensure you use the <button> tag why it will submit.
use a form tag, action="your functon uri" method="get"



when we click on the button we it will go thte sever and check who will process
login. but we ran the nodejs program, we have registered with the server
hey if somebody tells login I will process.


if( x>0)
 print("x is greater than zero");
else
print("x is less than zero");// kids program.

string msg ="x is less than zero";
if( x>0);
    msg ="x isgreater than zero";

print msg;



I will give empno and we want to get emp details.. emp details what does it mean
empno, empname, mobileno.

every scenario you have to start thinking likes this.

1. what is your URI- tells nodejs when the function should be called.
(Event registration) 
getEmployeeInfo.

2. what is mode of request.
get 

3. setup a function which can handle the request
if the URI is given.

app.get("/getEmployeeInfo,(req,res)=>{ });

4. think what is input you plan to read, how will it
come in the http request, currently ensure it is a query parameter only.
i need empno for my logic 
it will come as a parameter called empno.

5. what will be output, how will guy know that things suceeded or failed.
output will be a status object.
what will status object have

let x={ status:true, empdetails:{empno:2,empname:'A',mobileno:4}
this will value assuming empno is 2.
in all other cases.
let x={ status:false, empdetails:{empno:0,empname:'',mobileno:0}

thinking of input and ouptut is hardest thing, when we cannot do that
keep on learning new html tag or new javascript function or new css property
and be busy in life with zero context..

kid will scream, no this logic is wrong you should go database and give empno
and pick up the detail, you should tell the kid relax.. first..


99% of the misery in project comes from people who write poems..
what is poems
write the entire program and pray it will work. it wont work..
lot of mistakes in terms of syntax..

i wil give  you itemno and you should item details
itemname, price, category
itemno is 3, then keep item as pencil, price is 3, category is "stn"
in other cases return item object
where itemno is -1, price is -1, itemname is empty and category is empty.

we dont want to contact the server byusing form action and submit... no 

rather During some event in javascript in the client side.. example
onblur , onclick we want to contact the server by passing
whatever is needed and server will return data that will come to us


in the event handling functon , data returned from server will be avialable as
a variable.  we want to use it in the code


join back at 16.00 -- how to do ajax..

one important in nodejs functions avoid the temptation of return simple typeslike
string or a number.. no why in no project will ever be done, always focus
on returning objects..


how to contact the server in the background ( ajax )

what is ajax.
we are in html page. during some event of the html page , we will
contact the server.


we are in html page. during some event of the html page , some particular
javascript funtion will be called by system.
in that function we will use some ready made function let us X and call
the server pass the variables, get the data given by the server.


$("#t1").blur(
()=>{

console.log("blur event occured");
X(); 
}

)
;

what will x function do.
1. ready made function  .ajax
2. you should not byheart becuase it can keep changing.
3. ready made function will tell 
3.1 tell the uri.
3.2 what is input you want to pass.
3.3 what is mode of http request, in which input will be passed.. get or put or post...
3.4 success event  -- where you can mention what function to call
3.5 failure event == hwere you can mention which function to call.




one.html -- we made a request using form submission -- reached
the function present in a04we.js , here uri for /login was present
that function which is responsible for handling the uri /login got called.

there are many functions in jquery to contact the server. you dont think
of all the functions, just think of one function called .ajax.
all of you currently put your focus on understanding this function called .ajax.


any function which helps you contact the server, you should also know
how to know if server has failed also thru the function.

collect your input as a object.




in react or in jquery or in java or in spring boot everywhere fix your version
and have small plrograms which prove syntax is working..

if you keep data type json, what jquery function will do
convert your json into a javascript object.




let parameterstothefunction=
                        { data:ip, 
                          url: "http://localhost:900/login",
                          type:'get',
                          dataType: "json",  // data given server is json format so please
//convert this json into a jvascript object.

                          success:(datagivenbyserver)=>{ 
                              console.log( "data given by server in success" + datagivenbyserver.status)
                              if(datagivenbyserver.status  === true )
                              {
                                       $("#message").text("successful login"); 
                              } 
                              else
                              {
                                    $("#message").text("userid or password wrong");
                              }
                                                          
                            
                            },
                          error:(errorgivenbyserver)=> { console.log("failed to contact server "+errorgivenbyserver)}
                        }  ;
                      
what you should observe is how many steps we did it, we never wrote the poem
in one go..




whenever we use a function which contacts server.
be 100% sure you can take care of failure also and not only success.
or else dont use the function.







we have three textboxes.

[  ]=num1
[]=num2
[] = symbol + or -
contat the server after the onblur happens on the symbol and show
the result below the symbol textbox.

pass it to server, let the server based on the symbol return an object


{ status: true : result: -1}


when any concept comes, ability to write a small program without anybody
telling us to do it, is a important skill.


you need to think in terms of

1. client side.. already we told.. nothing to think..

give ids
setup events
think of input and ouptut
contact the server.


2. server.
2.1 think of uri.
2.2 keep the http mode of request as get.
2.3 think of input.
2.3 think of the output
2.4 do the stupid logic
2.5 send the data.


3. contaccting server.
3.1 get the version right.. one time.
3.2 dont worry about reading input from textbox.. relax send some
hardcoded input to the server.
3.3 keep the data type as Text.. why. let server give data we will see.
3.4 prove data is got from server correctly.
3.5 then data type to json.
3.6 start your ritual.. updating the ui.













