where are we.. where are we going..

1.finally the project will be done in react only and not by using raw javascript.
so how do we prepare for this..

2. what do we know in html and what do we in javascript.
html.. id and how to create form components like textbox or radio and understand
that each component can come up with its own set of properties.

3. javascript
at any cost no global things.
event setup part (this can vary from framework to framework)
we access sectiosn of the html page.. 

in the beginning what we covered was .
we a simple number
slowly we moved to array
and the last programwas input is an object and return type is an object.


4. general appraoch to presentation.
4.1 gave id correctly
4.2 setup event handling   == registration for the event.
we write functons which we dont call.
4.3.1 how do we get the input.
4.3.2 we assumed we got the output and think how to use it in the web page.
4.4 -- writing logic to pass input and get output.




Hope is people are focussing on the javascript language..

plan is like this.

1. basics of web using html and javascript
2. little bit of css.
3. jquery 
  nodejs
4. react
5. come back to css.
6. http headers... and relate to react..
objects and classes.

we can directly have an object, but if we want to multiple objects with
similar properties, creataing a class helps..

object oriented 
generalize the object we can create the class.

in some langauges our fate is to create the class first only then I can create
the object example java or c++ but in javscript we dont suffer this fate..


let x={};
x.empno=23;
x.deptid=44;
let y={};
y.empno =45;
y.deptid=66;
let z={};
z.empno=77;
z.deptid=88;

if we had created a class in javascript number of lines in the code will reduce.
number of lines in the code will reduce, surely javascript can perform faster
in the client..


if you tell I am going to create an object of a class called X.
class X must compulsorily have somethings ..non static variables.
example

class X
{
private int i;

}
if we create two objects of class X, how many copies of i.. 2
non static function. will have something special.. "this"

big problem in design
if "initial intent of design is X" no matter whatever changes we do in design
X will keep screaming and it will never become Y no matter how many times
we scream it is new , it is Y.... who cares it remains X only..

windows operating system == + consumer friendly, large number of third partysoftware
horrible stability..  --makeup on windows. for many ever years you want.
do you feel windows will become secure.. 

linux operating system..
from day 1 it is secure, multi user, consumer freindliness was never the focus.

moral of the story is "intent matters in design".
intial design cannot be changed no matter whatever circus we do..

javascript will be javascript
javascript will be screaming sometimes I can also act like java. but if you near
it will tell you I am javscript only..


 java will be java..
Java will keep screaming i can act like javascript, if you go near, it will
scream I remain java only...

who will get struck in between programmers .. they like syntax enjoy the 
syntax entertainment..

in java function input argument must be  primitive, referernce of a class
or reference of an interface that is it. I am in java 21 who cares it will remain like that
only , lamda entertainment is only during calling..

javascript never had class. huge amount of crying from java and c++ and .net guys
saying javascript you msut have a class ok to stop you crying I will give you class
guys felt very happy.. but if you near it is n ot all a class.


Today we are in world of "mass scale copy pasting"
everything is free.
java
javasript
python.

what do person who develop programming langauge do.
java programming langauge design see a feature called X which is highly popular
in python, they will copy this X in java and call X with a new name.
samething javascrxipt guys will do ,same things guys will do....

have all you installed software.. yes or no.. you have seen great button
called I agree.. did you read what you agree to... 



in java if you cretae a class called Emp

class Emp
{
	private int empno;
              private int deptid.

}

Emp e =new Emp();
e.email

Emp e1 =new Emp();
e1 i hate deptid let us remove it.
class acts likea  boundary. in java.
for what an object contains.. 
in javascript no class, no i write class write it.. but it wont act like a boundary..




moral of the story
initial design matters, no matter how much of makeup we put, intial design
will be screaming all the time.

how to crete a class.




is moral to compare java and javascript no.. 
moral is javascript is anew langauge, learn it that way without comparing
with anything else.


what is summary
1. javascript we can have an object. no class, yes no class.
2. NO i will create a class ok create it , lines of code will reduce, but still object
is the boss, class cannot keep any gun on the object.
3. size of the object is dynamic becuause it is not bound by the class.


in real life we know 
1. service function is the boss.
2. service function takes X as input and returns Y as output.
3. typically in real life X will belong to class called A, Y belongs to class called B.
4. this A and B has to created in service layer also and als in presentation layer..
we all this A and B in architecture..--"Model"

understand the class with intent to know it is different from java. that is it.
dont do phd on the class it is not needed.. 






kids favourite thing is only adding.. 
adding in case it is  not workig project it is ok..

let update and select work.
for people who are brave whowant to lose thier job do a delete also..


1. update
2. single select == if you do query on primary key
3. multi select.  ==if you do query on non primary key
4. insert.
5. last thing if somebody keeps gun at our head.. only then delete. else stay away
from it..


we will join back at 16.00 and continue..





lot of people have tried being prepared for the project it does not work
projects means uncertainty..
uncertainty lack of information..

what matters is are we willing to write  a small program to clarify
our concept or syntax.






whenever we write a function
we should think how do we tell the caller function succeded
function failed.

thinking in every scneario
what is output
what is input
is super important..
output how do you know the logic failed.. due to what.
1. user
2. independent of user..
currently let us build a kids program


in kids program class can contin only inbuilt types

class Emp
{
private int empno;
private STring empname
private Dept deptid;
}



lies ok easy to deal with.
but myths super hard....

concept is not a function of time, you can learn it immediately
syntax is a function of time, no shortcut..


when we have doubts in concept or syntax, dont ruin the origianl project
suspend it and figure out doubt in a small program, that is what we call as "poc"
proof of concept.. tiny program which will clariy the doubt..



if we write code using just technology (javascript or java) == lines of code is X
if we use framework with technology   ==lines of code is  Y

100% sure Y < x;


meaning of project success

1. how many people are using the project.
2. for how long.
if 1 and 2 cannot be answered "english" will help..

moral of the story

poets can  never be programmers..
who is poet, write code and code and hopes it works.. horrible
what prevented us from checking the output freqwuently...

write 5 lines of code and check output comes o rnot...
output does not come remove 5 lines output should come..

giving id.
setting up events
input and output needed for logic (high intelligence is needed why we cannot
copy paste from google)
doing the actua logic




Map<String,Integer> -- kids maps..

adults map

Map<String, ProjectspecificObject>

List<STring> =kids list.
List<projectSpecificObject> ==real list..


1. id giving is ok.
2. event handling is over
3. for each event scenario 
for the logic what is 
input needed
output needed
impact of output on the page.
4. sit peacefuly and foucs on the logic.
why peace, nswer yoiu know input needed and output expected

if you are able to understand today program
continue doing some small programs from the mozilla tutoria on objects.
how to use inheritance, what is prototype..









