hopefully we know that we can do


1. giving id in html
2. setting events in javascript
3. modelling input and output
3.1 think how input is picked up from the ui.
3.2 how the ouptut is used in the ui.
4 stupid logic.

-- above points hopefully everybody are comfortable ---

5. how to contact server and get data.
6. how to do routing ie go from one place to another
example login to postlogn page. 
postlogin page to update profile.
7. session handling
99% of web applications.

jquery
1. jquery is javascript a web based presentation framework 
which helps in manipulating the dom.
what is dom.. in the html we have tags. when the page is loaded
these tags get represented in a hierarchy, example input tag
may be under form, h1 tag may be under body... this hierarchy
in memory is called as DOM.

2. example. what you do in jquery.
1. wait for the whole page to be loaded.. how use the $ function.
2. setup events on the ui components based on need.
3. access the ui components value or html tags innerText or innerHTML.
4. if need be we can contact server by using some jquery functions
like .get, .post. or .ajax.

forget the words, can we contact the server from a javascript event handling
function answer is yes.

I hate framework. ok use the fetch api.
I will use the framework, ok use the framework specific function.

what the minimum things we are supposed to know in jquery.

1. how to setup events.
2. how to read ui componet input
3. how to read html tags input.
4. how to add or remove css classes from elements.
5. how to contact server from jquery.



try writing a01jquery.html without using jquery, using javascript without frameworks.
observe lines of code, jquery will reduce lines of code, normal framework increses
lines of code..

all these syntaxes which we use for disablingor enabling .. most frameworks
show unnecessary creativity and they will change the syntax for these things.
hence learn new syntax.

what syntax should we remember.

1. syntax we have used in the project..

in lab exam for web technology module you will give all the syntaxes
only thing is you have to think how to use the syntax, this is my way
of telling dont byheart syntax focus on architeccture first..


what should you fous on lab.

1. take some assingments any 3.
one example must have an object array.
try converting thta example into jquery.. whatever doubts you have let me know..


 bit of jquery is over.


asynchronous.. it wont happen now, it will happen in the future do you 
agree.


Future and CAllable.  in java.
Promise in javascript
welcome to real life, where same thing people are busy changing names
to sound "unique"

Promises in javascript.
someactivity .. which happens in future.
that activity if it succeeds you do an activity called 
if fails you do an activity called Z.

learn new syntax in javsacript called promise.

what is it...
1. some activity will occur one day..
2. we need to to know what happened to the activity.
2.1 suceeded  -- function that needs to get called when it suceeds
2.2 failed  --function that needs to get called when it fails.


we create a promise object.
what do we pass to promise object, we pass a callback function.
what is call back when some event occurs that function will be called.


when we create a promise object we pass a function which takes two input
arguments. 
what are those input arguments, function that needs to be called during
success and function that needs to be called during failure.

people who did not understand promise relax.. but keep your focus in javascript
now on topic called promise.

we will join back at 16.00



try to get some syntax in jquery.
in javascript start looking at promises


let myPromise = new Promise(function(myResolve, myReject) {
  let x = 0;
  console.log("is it working");
// The producing code (this may take some time)

  if (x == 0) {
	console.log("x value is zero");
    ;//myResolve("OK");
  } else {
    myReject("Error");
  }
});

promise being created..
promise being used.

promise.then(f1, f2);
f1 will get called when promise feels it suceeded
f2 will get called when promise feels it failed.



x.then when you see a syntax like this.
it is better to assume that x is a promise..
promise something is executing which will return after some time.

during threads in java
run method is called by us or called by the system..
system.




//defined the promise  -- is done person X  -- framework
let x =new Promise((x,y)=>{z});
we should x and y are functions
in Z what we do some activity.
judge whether activity is success  -- promise will call the function x 
judge wheter activity is failure  -- promise will call the function y

 
//use the promise  --person Y  --programmer
x.then((correctdata)=> {   },
          (faileddata)==> {  });
p function will become x
q function will become y

number 1 reason for confusion in many technical topics is becuase kid is addicted
to the word "I".

example who wrote the super class I
who wrote the subclass I
100% gurantee the  person will not understand inheritance..

who wrote the class I
who created the object of the class I
100% person will not understand constructor.



Object is super class for every class in java , are we owners of object class.no
we are writing class A, we are owner good subclass is written by a differnt person
and super class is written by a different person
so you know meaning of toString 


jquery doing  --M
jquery can give us a promise saying I will contact server..
and I can detect whether contacting server suceeded or failed.
but what you want me to do, that I cannot tell you only must tell me.

what we are doing.

take the promise of jquery  -- N
heyjquerypromise.then((data)=>{ call this if you feel success },(error)=>
{call this if you feel failure});








what we will today.
1. jquery  
2. nodejs


what are we trying to do practically.
1. how to build some server side component ie a component
that talks with the database .
2. how to contact the client and the server 
2.1 ajax   --mechanism of the client contacting the server
in the background.
xmlhttprequest
fetch
framework specific functions ( axios, .ajax in jquery...)









fetch('http://example.com/movies.json')
  .then(response => response.json(),error=> {console.log("getting data");})
  





if possible copy paste some java programs on Future and Callable
copy paste some example on promise in javascript 2 examples
not understanding ok..
1. promise creation done by person X
2. promise usage is done by person Y.


Web services.
web
services. this is old word to indicate -- Logic we do.
I am doing adding of two numbers, ok that is service.
I am getting empno and getting emp detials ok that is a service.
I am getting a pdf of insurance policies if i give mobile no, ok that is a service.
what will service not have
1. it will never have presenation..

public int add(int x, int y)
{
return x+y;


}
service should never have presentation inside.. why only then service
can be reused.

service and presentation should never be mixed, this is minimum decency while
writing code.
web services.

we have discussed service.
what does web mean ? http.
ok 

nobody should use the word web service for a service layer which cannot
be called via http.

1. focus on the service and prove it works properly
2. then think of web part for the service.

why we should write webservice?
we have service, and once we make it as web service
different presentations call our service. example

web service explain
1. it is service only.
2. we cover http on top of it .. why
2.1 so that any kind of presentation can call the service.
example adding of two numbers written in java.
calling is done from python code.

web service ensures service is callable by variety of presentation.



simple english what we are trying to do
1. we have ui. textbox button.
2. we know input and output.
3. we want the call the server from javascript event  ( promise comes in)
4. server is going to called via http and it is going to return something
called json.. to understand json we should know what is web service.




we want the call the server from javascript event  ( promise comes in)
example  -- we have entered an empno and we have clicked on the button.
inside the click of the button we want to contact the server pass this empno
and get details of the employee or get details of the error message and then
use it in the page...)

in computer science finally everything is just a series of function calls. do you agree.
I am calling the service layer = I am calling the service function.

if we are calling the function, then we must have input and output data types
what the function takes.. do you agree.


what is json, kids favourite question dont tell me what is  json
expand json. .ok JavaScript Object Notation..
now comes the serious question what is JSON?

JSON is a format to represent variables.
what is advantage it is a standard every programming langauge java or python
or c++ agrees json is a standard. they will give you ready made
functions which convert json into the langauge specific object.
langauge specific object into json.


we have json X --> java object or python object or c++ object

I have java object or c++ object or python --> json format.

advantaeg of it is understood by every programming langauge and hence
is used during web services.

how does  json syntax look like.
json is a string.
how do you prove it you can do string operations on it.

let x ="{"key":1,"key1": 3,"key2":[2,3,6]}"






NOdejs

1. Node js is a javascript runtime used for building server side components.
2. nodejs is also as a development environment to build web based presentation
using frameworks like react or angular.


1. Node js is a javascript runtime used for building server side components.
I want to use javascript connect to the myserver and supply the empno
and pickup the emp details. these things cannot be done by using
javascript we have in the brwoser. so for that reason we can think of using
nodejs.

2.web based presentation who is the boss?
all web based presentations have to agree with the boss?
browser. browser understands only html, css and javascript. that's it..
when we are using react or angular, we directly dont starting html , css, javascript
rather we will use lot of features of nodejs to build our web page.
dont expect nodejs to give you anything that can access sections of the html page
or the textbox value.. no that is not the purpose of nodejs...
react will give me
angular will give me
but nodejs wont ..

please install nodejs software. 
please install postman.


node --version






you should know theory on web services, and what is json is theory.
install nodejs
and pratice simple hello world js(dont touch ui), simply write some logic
and most important call the function and see whether it works.

in real life telescope and microscope
starting always is telescope..
we have to include other people files in our code, many a times.
"including the library"...

when we installed jdk we had some classes X, Y and Z.
if we are using these classes X , Y and Z we dont need to include new libraries
becuase they are part of the software installation.

we need to use a class called Q which is not part of jdk.
then we have to download the q library and start using it. downloading
the jar file in java..

when install nodejs.. we have some objects installed by default..let us P, Q
we need M, it is not installed as part of nodejs, then we need to download
the M.

what you should focus on
1. jquery basics are you ok with it.
2. spend time on promise.



























