after the session i am not able to get the things when i satrt to study whatever you teach  
problem of how we learn..
1. can you summarize what we did we cover today
after looking the pictures and notes.

2. can you come with your own examples..for each topic
which you felt summary was done by you.

3. obviously 1 and 2 is difficult what is easy is doing some logic
building program and hoping we understood.

do all of us know.
1. which part of htl changes, which part does.
2. how to setup events.
3. what is input we need, what is output we will get. from the logic.
4. doing the logic.

I will be build 10 examples to know the 4 things.
m not able to get the things when i satrt to study whatever you teach  

1. sumarize at end of the day what we should know.
2. i will tell some small examples to build 

changing variablesnames != programming.




how does javascript execute.

1. global section ie section outside functions.
2. that section gets interrpeted by the browser.








one common problem is referring to an id when browser does not even know it.
then we get null. one way to avoid this problem

is write javsacript after all the tags are interpreted by the browser.
it is  very important in javascript to know functions

1. which we are calling
2. event handling functions.. this will be called by the system, when
the event occurs.

do you see lines of javascript outside function, yes.. i do, ok it gets executed
when the page is loaded.


NO I see lines of javascript in a function
ok tell me what is your function
event handling function  -- ok it gets called when event occurs
normal function  --it gets called when you call the function.

----------------------

javascript has data types but we dont need to tell what is data type.

let x=3;
let y = x-1;
y value will be 2, that is proof javascript knew x was a number.
but when do you +
since plus can done with string also and also with number
when javascript does plus by default it assumes it to be a string rather than a number


form tag is a mechanism to group things..


form action="where you want to go" method="what is mode of http request">



DOMContent loaded event occurs after all the html tags are loaded.So is it correct to give a class outside the Dom event . 
creating a class != creating an object.


data type = content + operations
create a variable of the data type..


creaing a class  == createinga  data type
create a variable, create an object.

intent of keeping the class outside is mainly..
to tell that entire code will go to a separate .js one day..

arrays.
1. group of elements , linear datastructure ie
you search is sequential..and its size is not fixed

concepts i expected you know in javascript array.
1. how to create an array

let x =[];
//how to add elements into the array.
x.push("what you want to add");
//assuming we have added sequentially
x[i] where i position is zero or positive we access elements 

how to remove an element from the array.
x.splice(which position, how many elements to remove)

basics of javascript.

1. do know where to write javascript in the html page.
2. global and non global javascript.(inside some function)
3. do we know how to create variables in javscript 
4. do we know how to create functions in javascript how
functions gets called no matter whehter input argument is given
or not given..
5. can we start using javascript objects like Window,  document, Date,
String,.
window corresponds to the browser window.
document corresponds to your html page..

6. do we know how to access sections of the html via javascript
7. do we know how to setup event handling.
8. do we know depending on which object we are accessing
properties will change.


basics of appraochin web application presentation

1. do we know how our html will look like. 
2. think which part will change, put ids around it.
3. setup events.
what do you mean by event?

you should think of two things

1. where Event occurs (Event Source)
what is an event.
think of one variable, think of it changing.
let i =3;
i =4;
yes i value changed, questdion is now are we telling
other things hey i value changed ornot..
NO  I will not tell anybody, very good it is not an event.
I will give mechansim to tell Ok congrats it is an event.
usually events are detected by the system and not us..
will give you a mechanism to tell hey I am interested
in the event..
it will also give you amechanism to tell I am not interessted
in the event.










2. who is interested in the event  ( Event Listener) --most of times
we are here only..

we register with the event source, telling hey I am interested
in the event X, when event X occurs please let me know in this function.





nobody is interested for the event, then word event does not have
any meaning.



window.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', ()=>{

 //if all the tags in the html has been loaded, then
 //let me know..
 console.log("all tags are interpreted");
  

});
we are doing this line becuase we are interestedin setting up events
after the entire html is processed.

why am i asking you to write domContentLoaded event, you will get equivalent
of these things in jquery or react.. so it is better to know this approach.

Logic is like this..

1. you want to tell the browwer, hey browser finish processing all the tags.
2. once you are done, setup these events for me.


document.querySelector("#nn");
you are telling in javascript hey look in my html there is some tag with
the id called nn. pick that element.
nn is for a button. so object i get points to a button.
nn is a for  textbox, so object i get is a textbox.. 

a06basic.html

dont worry about validation as of now...
reason is very simple once we are real life validationis taken care of framework
frameworks may use different langauges which will help kids think javascript
is like java only.. example TypeScript.

even now keep your focus on javascript , how. read from javascript.info
or mozilla javascript..



when to create a class, 
when to just have an object.

if you are going to create only one object , then no need for a class
just create the object.

if you are going to create multiple objects which have similar properties
then class creation is needed in javascript.

we want to do X, X  needs Y and we dont know Y. then challenge is
can we learn Y with intention to solve X and not do phd on Y.
when in doubt ability to write a "small program" and clarify the doubt
shows that developer is intelligent...

big challenge is to recognze ambuities in reqwuirements itself..
challenge of real life make assumptions after checking with customer..











