1. for people who did not understand in last 8 to 10 days today is a day
we will summarize
2. in terms of code, we will see how to talk with database from nodejs(telescope
is important and not microscope .. more than syntax what is architecture we want)
3. in terms of your focus .
i like to read.. continue reading on javascript on the pdf given on wednesday.
I like to program. ok try your best to code ajax programs using jquery for presentation
and nodejs with express on your server side.
4. install react on your system..


what is assumption i i will do.
html
people who to create  textbox and atleast a button.
span tag or p tag
for any tag in html how to give a id.

javascript
1. setup the event..
raw javascript  -- addEventListener
by using jquery -- $("#b1").click(...
2. how to access textbox content or html content.
.val() or .html (with jquery
.value or .innerText or  .innerHTML (raw -javascript without framework)

CSS
1. class.
2. you can apply the class manually or by using javascript
javascript
without framework
with jquery framework --this is important..

nodejs.
1.hello world nodejs program without any http.
2. stupid thing of setting http server with inbuilt nodejs http module.( freaky
not required.. but then we should know some module is there..)
3. http server by using express framework.. (this is important)
3.1 how to setup the server.
3.2 how to setup the functions which get called for a particular URI
app.get("/addItem",(req,res)=> {console.log("function to ac}

how to do ajax in nodejs. 
ajax is done on client side.

how to do ajax in jquery or in react or in angular..
how to do ajax in jquery, when server side used is nodejs.
how to do ajax in jquery, when server side used is java or spring framework.

this module and advanced java it is more about architecture and less about
syntax..



if we dont knwo the meaning of step by step.. poems will be written
poems are horrible to debug..

experience is an overrated thing in the IT industry.. so dont take xperience
in IT industry seriously...
20 years experience so what.. in this project show how useful you are..


database 
1. is nodejs database code difficult or java database code difficult
or c++ database code difficult answer is  NO ...

what is difficult is do we know database concepts..
drop a table accidentally to get it back, what command should i use
rollback or commit?

people who do memory tests on database are unfit to be database programmers.
what is memory test.
giing wrong tablename
giving wrong columnname
giving wrong data type and finding out that  sql command is not working.
from java or from nodejs from c++ is pathetic. do your sql command creativity
on mysqsl console and not from java.. or .net or javascript world.


mariadb you can use mysql nothing wrong both are cousins who got lost
in a village fair..

we have done zero programs in db with nodejs, so relax and assume our programs
will not work..
so complicate misery by adding http adventure to it..

in any databse program.
1. talking to table will happen if are connected to the databse in which the table
is present.
different technologies have diffeent names for concept that connect to the database
in java World we use the word connection.
in nodejs world we can use word connection.

put all the energy on are we getting connection, I know insert command relax..
that is not needed first focu son getting connection.

how to get connection it is other person design, we cannot predict..
so find out..

1.database name we want to connect to.
2. what is userid
3. what is passowrd
4. what is port on which database server is running.

express modules was not by default installed during nodejs installation t/f =true
similary databse part for which ever database we are using is not installed
in nodejs so we have to install it. how... for mysql which module dont know
find out..

in official documentation there will be two things.

1. guide  --text book - if new go this.
2. documentation  -- dictionary

ok our program should  contact the database in mysql
what to do in nodejs.
install a module called mysql2, how did i know .. rag picking in google and doing
a poc.

how to make database with mysql work in your system.


1. install the mysql2 package .
2. a01db.js
double check userid, password, databasename portno and then run the a01db.js
and check whether it is working.
3. observe we did not use any http. not needed as of now.
when it comes to database.
1. insert
2. update
3. single select , where condtion on primary key
4. multi select., where condition is non primary multiple rows can be expected
5. brave people delete..


let program not work it i sok.. but then read the complete error message
two times.

just like yesterday ajax. on all important functions
dont be happy when it works, check yoursefl whether you know how to
know when the function failed.

11.00 to 11.30AMand we will try select command single select and multi select
we will think how to put real databse in our server which uses http.


1. show you can get connection
2. con.query(sqlcommand, fillup?markswitharrayvalues, callback function(err,res){})
how do you judge insert suceeded , success will get called.
how do you know you got error in insert

single select or multi select does not matter, database concept do you
rmember when it comes to select  "cursor"
it contains some rows and columns depending on your select query
using this rows and columns is what we should do we tell we are selecting.

we should see the select query in terms of what the where condition
is where condition based on primary key or nont on primary key.. 

itemno ( integer)  -pk
itemname (varchar(15)
itemprice (integer)


select * from item where itemprice < 10;

trying to put for loop and showing contents of the array in nodejs pathetic..
not worth.. becuase that is presentation job
what is server job, give the array to the presentation.. let the presentation
decide to what to do..


con.query(1,2,3)
1 parameter is your sql comand with ?
2 parameter is an array which will fill up the ?
3 paramter is call back function..this function will be called by the system
after the query has got executed.

insdie this call back function.
insert, update or delete 
second object you get is status of your insert, update or delete. 
you look for affected rows.. when during insert,update, or delete.

(err, x) => { }
if you are using insert, update or delete look for this property x.affectedRows.
if you are using select, then know 100% x is an array its length will tell you
wherhe where succeded or where failed.

now we plan to link a01ajax.html with real database and get things going.

how do you start understand html.

1. start with html first. and not with javascript.
2. think what is logic you plan to do and what is input and what is output
and how the output will be used..
input is userid and password.
output is some object.. { status: true , message:ldfslsfd  } who told us
nobody it is our design.

what is input needed
what is output
cannot be copy pasted from google we have to think..
3. focus on the event.
which event you want to contact the server.


I want to contact databse.. whre in the client or in the server?
in the server. so opening html file and thinking what to write to contact database
total stupidness.

i want to make web talk with database, but i am doing my first database program
now. horrible then dont touch web focus on databsae only..

the most important thing in the server, after we connected with databse.
we are sending data to the client ie resp.send(), not in the call back function
of the URI rather in call back function of the query, which we used in database.



first understand the program

a01one_ajax.html
a07_wewithdb.js

understand the database programs.
and in a07_wewithdb.js look where are telling resp.send...
try the assingments doubts..


hopefully you understand that we dont need more syntax in html or javascript
or css or nodjs, what we need minimum syntax and build the architecture first
properly..























