what did we yesterday.
1. we have to write code in object oriented style.

Emp object and I need all the insurance doucments of that
given Employee.


List<Insurance> getAllInsuranceofAnEmployee(Employee employee)
{

}





definer of the function

Z  f1(Y obj)
{
//function defintion
} 



caller also needs to have Y and Z do you agree.

I have javscript in my html ok...
there are three sections to it

1. event handling section.
2. logic section ( service  )
( all it does takes the input given and calls
the real service layer written on the server and gets
the output given by the real server and returns the
data back to the event handling section)
3. in projects return type and input argumetn is object
so return type object and input object is usually modelled
as a class and then object created of them... (Model)

how do you recognize  model in real life
these will be input and return type of your service functions.



how to build web page.
1. give id.

--javascript begins
2. write event handling
3. focus on input needed and focus on output got.
4. do the actual logic
input and output of service functions  --models.

Object  -- data type
1. state   --non static variables
2. behaviour  -- non static functions


let x={length:3, breadth:4, getArea:function(){return this.length*this.breadth;

whenever you see a function failing.
1. foucs on the input
2. focus on the output
3. then in between the function.--logic.

I have dont data to judge why program is failing ok if that is case, firstfocus
on collecting data.




int x[]={2,3,4} ;// we write this in java
if you are searching for 3 in the array. should you write a for loop.. no

Arrays.sort(x);
int pos= Arrays.binarySearch(x,3);
this story is 40 years old story, but kids like for loop so they will write..


syntax is new.. so relax and 



when you create objects and classes dont hope check at hello world
level once it is working fine, then think of using it at event handling level.


we will take  abreak till 4.00PM and join back..


what does a class does -- Encapsulation.
variables in the class.
you access via functions..

what is proof. when somebody is telling I am accessing the class X.
usually what does it mean?-- it means that we are accessing functions of class X.

earlier all the logic was just in functions, now we are trying to group
things to classes.

kids favourite word obj1.. who use obj1 ..

X x=new X();//java style.

let x =new X();


style of javascript code..







what is differnce you observed.

entire logic part which was just some functions earlier..
now has moved into a class.
we have creaed the object of hte class in event handling
when ever we want logic , we will call some function using the logic object.







kids hate when they see many classes. then we should tell kid dont be in a project
be in a class. then we will see only one class.

initially the story in html was very simple.
processing always on server... so focus on name...

radio button you needa  concept of grouping..


where are you

two radio buttons

India
Outside India


how do we write a function in javscript

function functioname(x)
{

}

when it came to the class.

function keyword..we dont write why.. legacy.. 


window.addEventListener("eventname",(?)=>{ here 100% return something will never appear }); //I think the question is 
about what can come in  ?

when you define the function.
1.who is calling it.
if sombody is calling he will decide what is function input , 
in any event handling function you will never see the word "return"

Eventsource to EventListener and not vice versa.

eventlilstenre functions will always return void..

? can anythinga bout the event.. but if we are using it. then we consider
using the ?, currently since I have no plans of using  ? we did not even mention
it in our code.


we have a function called f1, which is going to get called during event handling.
what is input the function f1 takes we dont decide, system decides.
why system is going to call f1 function and not we.

system tells I will give input of type X. we are in  javscript.if we write a function
without that input X, will function get called or not get called? get called..
that means we are ignoring x.


1. are you sure your function is a event handling function,yes..
2. ok then dont do astrology, open documentation and see what inputs
will you get in a event handling function, it will depend on scenario...

moral of the story 

1. organize your code into 3 units in javascript
1.1 event handling code.
1.2 logic code.
1.3 model code (input and output of your logic functions)
usually 1.3 is the boss in the project becuase this is what will vary from project
to project..

I minimum for knowing the programming langauge.. what does it mean?
1. documentation standard (1/5)
2. variable data type, scope, casting rule (5/5)
3. how to handle runtime problems in functions (5/5)
4. string handling and date handling (2/5)
5. how to use ds like array and map (3/5)
6. how to use good editors like visual code.. or ecclipse  , how to do unit testing
how to profile code (0.0005/5)
let us begin our journey on CSS, super small story.

1. CSS does decoration for the page.. example of decoration, is colors, fonts
most important alignement of the page..
2. most of times in CSS what is important to match something in the html.
it is called as "context Selector"
for example we tell in CSS hey find h1 in html and make it look red in color
find h1 in html   -- context selector..
3. color, font.. easy things in real life, alignment positioning difficult things..
in css.
4. CSS choosing colors, choosing alignment... different skill usually not
expected in everyone..it is a ocean.. from our priority low priority topic..

you have to spend lot of time on context selector if we want to learn
css decently.. should we spend yes we should know context selectors.
css properties huge we dont know we can think of later..
some properties can be learnt..

context selector as an element. what is going to happen
every element in the html which matches the context selector will get applied
with that property..

element context selector it gets applied automatically.
Id context selector it gets applied automatically.
class context selector it will not get applied automatically programmer
can apply it as and when needed and also remove it as when needed.

if we need a decoration that needs to be applied across a set of tags
controlled by us.. best option is a class.

ok we will not do phd on CSS why we want to learn javascript systemically
and that is what 99% of react ...but we cannot zero in CSS we should figure
out how to context selectors properly and some alignement properties in css.







do you know how to create a class in javscript , create an object, call its functions.
inheritance.. works in javascript







moral of the story is very simple..

1. javscript section your code into classes.. 
event handling
models
logic.(service)

2. continue your journey reading about javacript..

3. css emember context selectors.
.A  -- Class we need to apply this, 

#B  -- id
C  -- tag 



















