1. hope all of us know how to write a textbox and a button
and setup event hanlding for the button and read the textbox value
and change some part of the html next to the textbox.

while doing this, we avoid any global functions.
depending type of object you access, properteis will change
for example we should conscious whether we  have a textbox
or we have a button or we have a non textbox non button
<h1> 

2. in terms of reading hopefully people know what data types
are there in javascript and hopefully they have reached till
arrays.

basic rule we will mix html and javascript learn not separately.

today objective is to get comfortable with
javscript objects and arrays.


depending on the type of object you get , properteis will change.


javascript array.

array is dynamic in javascript that means it does not have a size.
let x=[];

you can use a ready made function push thru which we can add an elmeent into the
array.

1. simple variable (int, char, boolean)
2. array
3. composite type ( class type or reference)
4. array of composite types
5. other datastructures which contain composite types.

when any of these 5 things appear as input and return type of function
we should be ok with it.. we should not get addicted to int


we are passing deptid and we are getting a List of Employees.

in java how will servcie function look like

List<Employees> getEmployees(int deptid)

List<Employees> look in javascript we should be 5/5 in this, else we are dead
in web programming.

your servie function returns X and input argument is Y.
X serviceFunction(Y obj)
how X and Y look in javascript we should be sure about it. else forget wb programming
for presentation..





let arrayname=[3];
what does it mean we created an array whose first element value
is 3..

focus on array and objects in javascript. 







programmers main skills.

1. lower the cost of failure.. thought because of me project
wont suceed, becuase of me project wont fail.
2. problem solving..
we will always get doubt... concept or syntax.. at that point of time
can we write a "small program which works" to clarify the concept or the syntax
(this is never done). to do this people should tolerate uncertainty..
3. generalize the learning..


dont worry about validation in the beginning
let the logic work properly and then we an add the validation.






how do you build web page.

1. focus on html and focus on id.. where to give..and double check..
2. setup events., double check are events working.
3. what is input needed for the service function
3.1 dont assume you got the input, do a console.log and prove
input is correct..
3.2 think what will return type of the service function..
assume the value and use it..
I have done the logic. that is ok that will come.. but focus
on input and ouptut. how you plan to use..









fastest way to tell i hate javascript is not to like function inside function.
javscript programmer who is not cosnciouis about what type of element
is id pointing to should not write the program.



dont get overenthusiastic about service calling relax and focus on input
needed.


when dont have data to solve the problem focus on collecting data first..

java infection in javascript is dangerous.. javascript is javascript
and java is java... 

for people who are from c,C++ or java, javascript is  big time shock
becuase of nature of the langauge.

in javscript respecting it a new langauge we are new to it, so we learn
everything from the beginning is important..

things which have not changed for last 50 years, stupidity of the progrmmer also.

if we did not check any of radio button can we show some message
very much possible.


in real life validations are done by frameworks we can configure them
so as a programmer we should not waste time writing our own validation
logic.. that is telescope..

1. id giving in html
2. setup events double check
3. input and ouptut modelling of service function(hardest part) of any real life project.

4. calling service function
5. configuring validatin if you want to..








job of the presentation layer.


1. know the servcie layer input and ouptut.
2. capture what service layer needs as input from ui.. textbox radio...
3. call the service function
4. whatever service function returned, use it in the UI, update the UI

we give accountno and we get AccountDetails of that account.
querying logic.

11.30AM and join back...
objects in javscript












you tell 1000 problems in web presentation appraoch is same.

1. setup html id
2. setup event handling

in our scneario what is input to the function..

input to the function. accno -- number ..
return type from the function --how to talk english.. account details nice english
Account object.

how do we know we are talking with kids. life full of int only nothing else..
first thing we should admit the kid to hospital and get rid of his "int" disease..
a programmer shoud know that input argumetn and return types 99% in a real
life project aare all objects and not simple things like int...

Account object. yes.. 
we are from java.. ok relax.. in javascript we can object without writing a class.

how to do it.
let x={}; //is this an object yes, it is an object.

suppose we have class A. inside class A we have non static variable called i.
if we create 3 objects of class A, how many copies of i will be there?  3.


let account={acno:3, balance:4,email:"abc@def.com",pin:7};
what is account an object, what are its properites acno, balance, email and pin.
did we create a class no.. why we are in javascript we dont need a class.
but the kid from java world keeps crying non stop saying I am unable to digest
that we can have an object without a class. to console him javascript will
tell if you want a class i will allow you to create it.

input argumetn function is a number.
return type is an object.




in the html page we can 

textbox
we can radio button
we have h1, p tag.

all are tags in html.do you agree.
in memory each of these tags have different properties..

for example in a textbox we can enter something.
radio button we can select something
in h1. there is nothing to select or type.. but tag has got content.
so depending on which tag you are referring to  in memory, properties change.

broadly you can think in terms of 
1. form elements.  text, radio, ...  -- 
insdie a textbox how do you refer textbox content.. answer is value
2. non form elements.. like h1, h2, p, span.. there is no concept called value
becuase it is  non form component. so property innerHTML






kid programmer favourite pastime.

1. take  a program alredy written and change the variablenames..



todays first program function

1. input was a number, return type was an array.

second program.
input was a number, return type is an ojbect.


third program.
input is an object, return type is an object(this is what real life is all about )

input argumetn is an object
what is return type object.

those who tell good start, they should go into details tell the properties.

input argumetn object ( length, breadth)
output argumetn object(  area, perimter)
congrats people who tell great people..



1. rule no 1 is build html with ids.
2. setup events
3. get input and use the output..
4. actual logic..















