1. if you are not understanding 

appraoch to mix html, javascript and css and learn not learn it separately.

what you should know in terms of concept
1. http protocol means web.
file:///D:/$$dacmumbai/30.05.2022/programs/a01basicsweb.html
2. http request and response.
3. server side component, clietn side component
4. we have lot of issues in web applications presentation which
we should attack early...

which browsers are you targetting.
back button.
duplicate submission
refresh..

start reading this.
html tutorial from mozilla.
javascript early..

what is html.
presentation technology, used to structure a web page.
for example..
hyperlink..


what you should know in terms of syntax.

hello world html..




standard kids problem in coding..

1. if facaulty shows a program with syntax X or Y.
2. kid will write program with syntax X or Y, new syntax called Z
comes kid will cry, 

kid will write program only changing variablenames..
people who cannot tolerate uncertainty cannot be programmers.

millions of programmers have prayed that they should
be "prepared"for the project, still now thier prayer has neverbeen aswnered.







we will make a list of what are the commonly used
syntaxes in html
syntaxes in javascript
syntaxes used in css.

I want to learn html ... we learn some tags.
which tags we should learn...we will learn form tags first..
why form tags and not other tags answer is i want you to use
html along with javascript quickly.

how do you create a textbox in html.
<input type="text"  id="" />
this called "new" usually means new syntax most of times..


in html , try to focus on creating the ui components.
without a form.

Javascript what most important thing we discussed.

Event Handling that is theory.
1. Event Source
2. Event Listener.
basic about function

1. defining a function
most important concept -- who is going to call it.

2. calling a function
open documentation..

we have to mix html  + javascript = most common way to mix
is by using event handling.

what does it mean in coding
in the html page , we will write a syntax telling the system


hey system for this event = call this function which I have written.
registering for the event.


I dont want to take login, register. add item to shop.. all these
programs while learning syntax.. stay away from logic building until
we know

1. concept
2. can give an example
3. hello world program to show we are familiar wiht syntax.
4. best practices.
5. logic building.


syntax for doing event hanlding you have many ways.
1. old way  -- onClick next to the textbox
2. so called new way.  -- addEventListener
3. opinion 1 way  --react
4. opinion 2 way  --jquery
syntax is not same. so why byheart learn all the 4 things.
and once project we are uisng 4. ok i will learn jquery way
of setting up events..






learning javascript.

1.do we know how to write console.log ( yes .)
2. do we  know variables 
varibles super big problem is "kids addiction to int variable" always
in real life we have objects ( composite type)

multiple information is logically related to the same entity.
Rectangle ( length and breadth)
projects will always project specific data type..
you will have classes which have non static variables
non static variablenames are decided by your project
example
Employee class, within employee class what empno, empname
,email
why Employee class.. project tells me
why only empno, empname and email and why not mobile
project tells me...


1. event handling syntax can change.
2. need for being comfortable with projet specific type
or a datastructure or a primitive type.
for function input or output.

if you want to avoid global functions, we have no choice
other than registering for the event.

which event..domcontentloaded, what is this event
browser is telling hey i finished interpreting all the tags in
the web page.
we have to use javascript object called window.

in every programming langauge you will have non primitive
data types also .
in javascript one non primitive variable is document.
onea nother variable is window.
terminology we use in javsacript is javascript has got lot of inbuilt objects.
like window, document, navigator.....







window.
addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded',
()=>{
console.log("f1 function called without global")
}
);
what is DOMContentLoaded.. name of the event.
what is DOM word here.. html document has got tags..
that is Document Object Model..--Hierarchial model.
html tag we have a heaad, body
under body tag we have input tag.. that all the tags
are arranged in memory in a hierrachy. that hierarchy
is called Document object Model.



hello world javascript hopefully all your know..
hello world event hanlding.. ok program we wrote now
is hello world event handling only. show me smaller program
no not possible this is smallest program why.. no global variables
no global functions.


write two hello world programs in javascript
1. console.log just to show script works.
2. how to setup events in javascript.


whenever you see a function not having a name be sure
it is a event handling function only..

if we want to call the function in java or javscript
what we should know.. first--- you must know functinname.

we are calling the function means we know the functionname.
only when system is calling the function, in javascript 
it need not know the function name, this is very old story
but kids will have skipped the topic in that old story hence
they are finding it new..






let us make a rule
if we want to setup any event.. first thing we will do
setup the domcontentloaded event on window and only then
think of other events.

show me how to setup event for a button.
when we have something in html we should identify it. 
how to identify it. usually common way is by giving an id.

we will take a break till 4.00PM and join back..



this is way we will appraoch javascript

1. learn basic variable and basic function
2. learn event handling
3. basic ui in html
4. with 1, 2,3 learn more concept in javascript

once we have done the basic event handling
we want to do event handling on some ui component let us say
textbox or radio button or drop down.. first thing give an id for it.

we have category in variable creation like var, const, let.. for local variables
we will prefer to use let, if we want constants then we will prefer const
var we will stay away from it as of now..




const b1 = document.querySelector("#b1");
querySelector is a function of the document object.
what does it do, we are telling thru the function hey locate the element with the 
id b1. 
why is called query selector, in the " " we can ask it to select by tagname or other
things ... we will see later on.. currently what we did is given an id and ask it select
that element.. why we want to setup event on that element...
javascript is not java.. first thing which we need to get comfortable without
"bp issues" is
function within function function within function...
we should be ok with it..


challenge in javascript.. is very simple challenge in java .. is realtively easier. why


in java if we write

A obj =new B();
what can be A? class or interface.

what is type of reference , it is A
what is type of Object, it is B.
a java programmer should 100% know
what type of reference he has got and what type of Object he has got.



let const or var, so as a programmer we should know the data type of the
variable we are pointing to. why.. only then we can use the correct operation.

in javascript be fully conscious what type of object or data type are we holding..
different objects have different properties.

List l =new ArrayList();
l.add("hello");

Map<STring,STring> m =new HashMap();
m.put("key","value");

what is this in javascript.
radio button will have different properties
textbox will have different properties.
so if we dont know whether we have a radio button with us or a textbox with
us while using javascript. we can mess up big time..

Challenge is "being conscious"


let y  = WhoCares.getMeList();


in javascript learning
1. ok we know console.log
2. we know how to create one simple variable and function.. 
3. we know setup event handling, function within function.. ok we are normal.
anonymous functions ok we are normal with it.
4. "fully conscious" of what is type of object we have in our variable.
not clever ok but consciousness must in javascript.


programmers should be capable of taking english and converting into code.
he is telling after the button is clicked.
read the textbox value
and print the 5 multiple of that number entered in the textbox.
there is a tag in html called <span> this is good to identify texts which
should not come in new line.




how to read a textbox value during some event..

1. get access to that textbox.
2. use .value on that object.

let x = document.querySelector("#t1");
console.log(x.value);


dont do the logic along with the ui.
keep the ui chanign function separate from the logic function..

innerHTML is a property of HTML elements which will give us contents of the tag.

<P> hi </P>
first thing to judge is <P> is a html element and not a form element.

for all these kind of elements how to ead its content by using a property called
innerHTML.


standard kids disease.

1. first define the function and then think where to call it...

in real life as far as programmer called functions
in every tool , if we call the function, the tool we define the function for us
and we can fill up the function defintion.








words and its meaning.
1. variable.  --super set word   --science
2. primtiive variable.  -- one subset -- physics
3. non primitie variable  --another subset 
3.1reference
3.2object.

why we should know primitive and non primitive types, what is your answer.
during assingment their behaviour changes.
int i =3;
int j =4;
j = i;
j =5;
print i;



Rct r =new Rct();
r.setLength(4);
r.setBredth(5);
Rct r1 = r; //two references one object
r1.setLength(1);
r1.setBreadth(2);
sysout(r.getLength());

let x =3;//primitive
let y =x;
y =4;
console.log(x);

let x=[];//array in javascript
let y=x;
y[0]=3;
console.log(x[0]);//it will print  















